 
 
 
About this CD-ROM  
 
This CD-ROM contains actual monthly, annual and sea sonal rainfall series for 110 years ( 1901 – 2010 )  along with their 
mean, standard deviation and coefficient of variati on values for 100 years ( 1901 – 2000 ) of all Indi a, Four Homogeneous 
Regions, Met Sub-divisions, States and Districts.  
This CD-ROM is basically designed for the use in pe rsonal computers with the Window Operating System.  This CD-ROM 
will automatically open with the AUTORUN facility. The data are in a tabular form as simple text (ASCI I). The data sheet 
can be printed for your use. The data sheet can be exported to EXCEL spread sheet or as a MS Word file . If AUTORUN 
facility does not work, the CD-ROM data can be acce ssed through Microsoft Explorer by opening the e-bo ok file. 
METHODOLOGY USED IN THE PREPARATION OF DISTRICTS, S TATES, SUBDIVISIONS AND ALL INDIA MONTHLY 
RAINFALL  SERIES  : 
 
 
a. Monthly Rainfall    : It is the sum of daily rainfall considering all the days in a month. If rainfall data of even a 
single day in the month is missing, the monthly rainfall data of that whole month is not considered and is left 
blank. 
 
b. District series     : It is calculated by taking simple arithmetic mean of the monthly rainfall data of all the   
available 
                stations  in the district for a particular month. 
 
 c. Subdivision series   & State series  : It is calculated by district area weighted method. 
        
 d. All India series  : It is calculated by subdivision area weighted method.  
  
 e. All rainfall values are in mm 
 
NOTE  1 :  The data in excel format is also available in this CD-ROM. 
           2 : All the District / State / Sub-division data series is computed based on recent geographical bifurcation. 
           3 :  The following notations are used in this CD – ROM 
 
  JF      -  January + February ( Winter Season ) 
  MAM  -  March + April + May ( Pre Monsoon Season ) 
  JJAS -  June + July + August + September ( Monsoo n Season ) 
  OND -  October + November + December ( Post Monso on Season )  
 
DISCLAIMER & LIMITATIONS  :  
The data has been checked and the authenticity assured within limitations of human errors.   
The India Meteorological  Department is not respons ible for any errors, omissions or representations o n any of our pages or on any links on any of our 
pages.The India Meteorological  Department will not be responsible for any adverse implication due to the use of this data. 