recommended quantity in 10 litres of water. 
 To prevent an increase in the population of whiteflies 
and jassids (leafhoppers), do not use synthetic 
pyrethroid insecticides until the month of November. 
Groundnut Flowering/ 
Pod formation 
 Leaf-eating caterpillar (Spodoptera) in groundnut can 
be controlled by installing one light trap per hectare in 
the affected area and destroy the adult moths and leaf -
eating caterpillar moths attracted to the trap. 
 White grubs in groundnut can be controlled by spraying 
Chlorpyrifos 20EC with 4litres per hectare through drip 
irrigation or along with irrigation. If irrigation is not 
being given but intermittent rainfall is occurring, 
prepare the insecticide solution in a spray pump, 
remove the nozzle and apply the solution directly into 
the furrows in the required quantity. 
 Leaf-eating caterpillar (Spodoptera) in groundnut can 
be controlled by installing pheromone traps with 40 
traps per hectare on a community basis t o keep the pest 
population under control. At the initial stage of 
infestation, spray either neem seed kernel powder 
extract at 500 g (5% extract) or a neem -based 
insecticide at 20 ml (1 EC) to 40 ml (0.15 EC) mixed in 
10 litres of water. If the infestation  becomes severe, 
spray Chlorantraniliprole 18.5 SC at 3 ml or 
Flubendiamide 20 WG at 6 g or Thiamethoxam 12.6% + 
Lambda-cyhalothrin 9.5% ZC at 3 ml 10 litres of water. 
 Cutworms in groundnut can be controlled by installing 
one light trap per hectare to attr act and destroy the 
moths. Prepare a 5% neem extract by mixing 500 g of 
neem seed kernel powder or neem leaves in 10 litres of 
water and spray it on the crop. If the infestation is 
severe, spray either Indoxacarb 14.5 SC with 10 ml per 
10 litres of water o r Emamectin benzoate 5 SG with 5 g 
per 10 litres of water. 
Green 
gram 
Flowering/ 
Pod formation 
 Apply need based light irrigation by considering 
weather and soil moisture condition in green gram 
crop. 
 Mosaic of leaf curl disease is transmitted due to white  
fly so to control it, spray imidacloprid 17.8 SC 3 ml or 
acetamiprid 20 SP 2 g or azadirachtin 40 ml in 10 litres 
of water in green gram crop.  
 Hairy caterpillar in green gram can be controlled by 
installing one light trap per hectare to attract and 